README.md, before:

# PMD-Process-Analysis
This repository contains the analysis and optimization of the Plasma Metal Deposition (PMD) process. It focuses on modeling the relationship between process parameters (wire feed speed, current, voltage) and deposition outcomes (layer height, width). The goal is to improve process stability and efficiency using data-driven techniques.

## Installation
To install the required packages, run the following command:

```bash
conda env create -f conda_env.yaml

```

## TODO list what needs to be done


### Dataset 1
- [x] Load the dataset
- [x] Sync the welddata with layerdata, this is done by a knn where we fit n points of the mesurement data to the weld data via x,y corrdinate
- [x] Compare lag between change in wirefeed and change in layer height
- [ ] Create a model to predict the layer height and width based on the process parameters
- [ ] Evaluate the model performance
- [ ] Visualize the results

### Dataset 2
- [ ] subtract layer 0 following layers (not sure if needed since we calculate the the deposition hight)
- [ ] Make syncing proces faster by using multiple processing
- [ ] Add a pass indicator to the passes.
- [ ] combine the collected data (individual csv) of Dataset 2 into one dataset

Commit message:

Add measurement error calculations and preprocessing functions for welding data
- Implemented `calculate_measurement_error` to compute absolute measurement errors for specified modes and layers.
- Added `calculate_errors_for_all_layers` to aggregate measurement errors across all layers for modes 4 and 5.
- Created `fix_measureing_outliers_of_y` to identify and interpolate outliers in Z-Height for Mode 4, Layer 0.
- Enhanced `cutoff_start_end_of_axis` to allow dynamic column selection for Y and X axis trimming.
- Introduced `cut_off_layer_0_mode5` to remove edge points in Layer 0 for Mode 5 based on higher layer coverage.
- Developed `preprocess_welding_data` to streamline data cleaning and filtering steps.
- Updated `plot2D_crossection` to allow dynamic coloring based on specified column.
- Added multiprocessing support in `sync_measurement_with_weld_mp` for efficient layer processing.
- Implemented `add_pass_indicator` to cluster Z heights and indicate pass numbers within each layer.

README.md, after:

# PMD-Process-Analysis
This repository contains the analysis and optimization of the Plasma Metal Deposition (PMD) process. It focuses on modeling the relationship between process parameters (wire feed speed, current, voltage) and deposition outcomes (layer height, width). The goal is to improve process stability and efficiency using data-driven techniques.

## Installation
To install the required packages, run the following command:

```bash
conda env create -f conda_env.yaml

```

## TODO list what needs to be done


### Dataset 1
- [x] Load the dataset
- [x] Sync the welddata with layerdata, this is done by a knn where we fit n points of the mesurement data to the weld data via x,y corrdinate
- [x] Compare lag between change in wirefeed and change in layer height
- [ ] Create a model to predict the layer height and width based on the process parameters
- [ ] Evaluate the model performance
- [ ] Visualize the results

### Dataset 2
- [ ] subtract layer 0 following layers (not sure if needed since we calculate the the deposition hight)
- [x] fix layer 0 outliers if deviates more than 1mm from mean set to layer mean
- [x] Make syncing proces faster by using multiple processing
- [x] Add a pass indicator to the passes.
- [ ] combine the collected data (individual csv) of Dataset 2 into one dataset
